docs/MISSION.md, before:

# ABAP Logger

SAP Logging as painless as any other language

## One of these things is not like the others

Every language has some way of logging messages. For example, in Javascript, you write:

```javascript
console.log("Leapin' lizards, something went wrong!");
```

Ruby has the added benefit of different levels of messages.

```ruby
require 'logger'
log = Logger.new('logfile.log')
log.warn("You're on thin ice, bud.")
log.info("Things are normal again.")
```

Android lets you optionally tag log messages, all in one line of Java.

```java
Log.e('MAPS_INTERFACE', 'The system is down!!!');
```

And in ABAP, logging one string is as easy as this:

```abap
DATA: header TYPE bal_s_log,
      handle TYPE balloghndl,
      handles_to_save TYPE bal_t_logh.

header-object = 'ZINTERFACES'.
header-subobject = 'ACCOUNTING'.
header-extnumber = 'Stuff imported from legacy systems'.

CALL FUNCTION 'BAL_LOG_CREATE'
  EXPORTING
    i_s_log      = header
  IMPORTING
    e_log_handle = handle.

CALL FUNCTION 'BAL_LOG_MSG_ADD_FREE_TEXT'
  EXPORTING
    i_log_handle = handle
    i_msgty = 'E'
    i_text = 'You see, what had happened was...'.

CALL FUNCTION 'BAL_DB_SAVE'
  EXPORTING
    i_t_log_handle = handles_to_save.
```

If you're not asleep after writing all that, then you've at least forgot
what you were programming before you had to log something. Talk about a
context switch! If anything, logging should be QUICK so you can get on
with the real programming.

A better log would barely interrupt my code, so I can output messages in
one line, and you don't lose the big picture as you are reading it. What
do you wish the ABAP example above looked like?  How about this:

## Usage

```abap
DATA: log TYPE REF TO zif_logger.

log = zcl_logger_factory=>create_log( object = 'ZINTERFACES'
                                      subobject = 'ACCOUNTING'
                                      desc = 'Stuff imported from legacy systems' ).

log->e( 'You see, what had happened was...' ).
```

Method calls can be chained, too. 

```abap
zcl_logger_factory=>create_log( object = 'foo' )->e( 'Bad things happened: See details' )->e( error ).
```

## Logging Different Types

Making use of SAP's run-time type services, we can pass almost anything we
might want to log to an instance of ZIF_LOGGER, and it will do the heavy lifting.

Log a string:

```abap
log->s( 'Document 4800095710 created successfully' ).
```

Log a bapi return message:

```abap
DATA: rtn TYPE bapiret2.
log->add( rtn ).
```

Log a table of bapi return messages:

```abap
DATA: msgs TYPE TABLE OF bapiret2.
log->add( msgs ).
```

Log an HR error message

```abap
DATA: hr_msg TYPE HRPAD_MESSAGE .
log->add( hr_msg ).
```

Log an exception:

```abap
TRY.
    rubber_band_powered_spaceship=>fly_to( the_moon ).
  CATCH zcx_not_enough_power INTO err.
    log->e( err ).
ENDTRY.
```

Log the current system message:

```abap
MESSAGE e001(oo) WITH foo bar baz INTO dummy.
log->add( ). "you don't even need to pass anything in, bro.
```

Log the return of a BDC call:

```abap
CALL TRANSACTION 'CO07' USING bdc_tab MESSAGES INTO bdc_messages.
log->add( bdc_messages ).
```

And that's every scenario I've been able to think of, so far.

## Don't Ignore SAP's Strengths

The SAP environment has a lot of power, and it would be good not to ignore
it. Transaction codes SLG1 and SLGD views and filters logs with ease, and it allows
for added context variables and parameters. A new logger class should not
reinvent the wheel, the wheelbarrow, or the mechanisms for saving and
displaying logs.

If you have an instance of a log object, you can add context variables and
a problem class, two things that SLG1 handles well.

```abap
log->w( obj_to_log = 'Document created with errors' "<-- Which document? Needs context.
        context = new_document ). "<-- Here's the context
```

Since this log is designed to be simple, it has ignored a lot of the more
exotic function modules in the SBAL family. If your log needs to use one
of these function modules, the log header, handle and database id are all
read-only members of the class, so you can pass them right along to the
function module.

```abap
log->i( 'Results of system analysis' ).

CALL FUNCTION 'BAL_LOG_MSG_CUMULATE'
  EXPORTING
    i_log_handle = log->handle
    i_s_msg = l_msg
    i_compare_attributes = abap_true.
```

Commit message:

Update MISSION.md (#136)
Add A link to the Repository with the Demonstration Programs

docs/MISSION.md, after:

# ABAP Logger

SAP Logging as painless as any other language

## One of these things is not like the others

Every language has some way of logging messages. For example, in Javascript, you write:

```javascript
console.log("Leapin' lizards, something went wrong!");
```

Ruby has the added benefit of different levels of messages.

```ruby
require 'logger'
log = Logger.new('logfile.log')
log.warn("You're on thin ice, bud.")
log.info("Things are normal again.")
```

Android lets you optionally tag log messages, all in one line of Java.

```java
Log.e('MAPS_INTERFACE', 'The system is down!!!');
```

And in ABAP, logging one string is as easy as this:

```abap
DATA: header TYPE bal_s_log,
      handle TYPE balloghndl,
      handles_to_save TYPE bal_t_logh.

header-object = 'ZINTERFACES'.
header-subobject = 'ACCOUNTING'.
header-extnumber = 'Stuff imported from legacy systems'.

CALL FUNCTION 'BAL_LOG_CREATE'
  EXPORTING
    i_s_log      = header
  IMPORTING
    e_log_handle = handle.

CALL FUNCTION 'BAL_LOG_MSG_ADD_FREE_TEXT'
  EXPORTING
    i_log_handle = handle
    i_msgty = 'E'
    i_text = 'You see, what had happened was...'.

CALL FUNCTION 'BAL_DB_SAVE'
  EXPORTING
    i_t_log_handle = handles_to_save.
```

If you're not asleep after writing all that, then you've at least forgot
what you were programming before you had to log something. Talk about a
context switch! If anything, logging should be QUICK so you can get on
with the real programming.

A better log would barely interrupt my code, so I can output messages in
one line, and you don't lose the big picture as you are reading it. What
do you wish the ABAP example above looked like?  How about this:

## Usage

You can find many Demonstration programs that illustrate the use in [this Repo](https://github.com/ABAP-Logger/demos).


```abap
DATA: log TYPE REF TO zif_logger.

log = zcl_logger_factory=>create_log( object = 'ZINTERFACES'
                                      subobject = 'ACCOUNTING'
                                      desc = 'Stuff imported from legacy systems' ).

log->e( 'You see, what had happened was...' ).
```

Method calls can be chained, too. 

```abap
zcl_logger_factory=>create_log( object = 'foo' )->e( 'Bad things happened: See details' )->e( error ).
```

## Logging Different Types

Making use of SAP's run-time type services, we can pass almost anything we
might want to log to an instance of ZIF_LOGGER, and it will do the heavy lifting.

Log a string:

```abap
log->s( 'Document 4800095710 created successfully' ).
```

Log a bapi return message:

```abap
DATA: rtn TYPE bapiret2.
log->add( rtn ).
```

Log a table of bapi return messages:

```abap
DATA: msgs TYPE TABLE OF bapiret2.
log->add( msgs ).
```

Log an HR error message

```abap
DATA: hr_msg TYPE HRPAD_MESSAGE .
log->add( hr_msg ).
```

Log an exception:

```abap
TRY.
    rubber_band_powered_spaceship=>fly_to( the_moon ).
  CATCH zcx_not_enough_power INTO err.
    log->e( err ).
ENDTRY.
```

Log the current system message:

```abap
MESSAGE e001(oo) WITH foo bar baz INTO dummy.
log->add( ). "you don't even need to pass anything in, bro.
```

Log the return of a BDC call:

```abap
CALL TRANSACTION 'CO07' USING bdc_tab MESSAGES INTO bdc_messages.
log->add( bdc_messages ).
```

And that's every scenario I've been able to think of, so far.

## Don't Ignore SAP's Strengths

The SAP environment has a lot of power, and it would be good not to ignore
it. Transaction codes SLG1 and SLGD views and filters logs with ease, and it allows
for added context variables and parameters. A new logger class should not
reinvent the wheel, the wheelbarrow, or the mechanisms for saving and
displaying logs.

If you have an instance of a log object, you can add context variables and
a problem class, two things that SLG1 handles well.

```abap
log->w( obj_to_log = 'Document created with errors' "<-- Which document? Needs context.
        context = new_document ). "<-- Here's the context
```

Since this log is designed to be simple, it has ignored a lot of the more
exotic function modules in the SBAL family. If your log needs to use one
of these function modules, the log header, handle and database id are all
read-only members of the class, so you can pass them right along to the
function module.

```abap
log->i( 'Results of system analysis' ).

CALL FUNCTION 'BAL_LOG_MSG_CUMULATE'
  EXPORTING
    i_log_handle = log->handle
    i_s_msg = l_msg
    i_compare_attributes = abap_true.
```
